>> Melkey: We're close to wrapping up,
but there is one very,
very obvious issue in this entire app,
not middleware at all, and it's the fact
that people can still create workouts and
delete them however they want.
There is no core safety
between someone deleting
all of my workouts that even
if they don't belong to them.
And if you remember at the very,
very beginning in migrations,
in workouts, we have this commented out,
this user ID.
Well, we have come to the time
where we're gonna basically start
giving every workout
an associated user ID.
So user IDs are gonna be
responsible of creating a workout,
no more will people be quote, unquote,
anonymous to create workouts,
and this will allow us to
validate if the person submitting
the request is in fact the owner
of that workout, okay?
And so how do we do this?
Well, if we go back,
we're not gonna uncommon this,
we're gonna leave this we won't touch
this file anymore, but under migrations,
we're gonna create a fifth file, okay?
We're gonna create 00005.
This file,
we can call it user_id_alter.sql.
>> Melkey: All right, so it should look
like just an empty file, but go ahead and
just copy an existing SQL file
cuz it would save us some time.
So paste it, let's go ahead and save.
Okay, so we're not gonna be
creating a new table, but
what we're going to be
doing is alter table.
The table name is gonna be workouts.
All right, and
this is truly a good use of of migrations.
We're modifying the schema of this table,
okay?
And here we're gonna do add column, okay?
User_id, I'm gonna describe
what this user_id is,
it's gonna be a BIGINT NOT NULL REFERENCES
users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE.
And then DROP TABLE,
we're not gonna be doing any drop tables.
So on the goose down ALTER TABLE
workouts DROP COLUMN user_id.
And with that if we go back up,
here we can rerun our same Goose command,
so you might have it saved, so
I recommend just using this up.
So goose -dir migrations postgres, and
it's just the up command at the very end.
And if you run this, you should see
this error, this is intentional.
I wanted to showcase this because what I
wanted to do is highlight the importance
of really understanding your data
before you go too deep in programming.
The reason why we can't use
this is cuz we have already.
If you go into PSQL and
we select all from workouts,
we have a workout here already.
And if we were to
introduce this new column,
this user_id that makes
a relation to our users table,
how do we find who remade this entry,
right?
Do we call everyone, all of our users?
No, so the unfortunate side
of this is this migration,
although convenient to execute via Goose,
it still presents a giant flaw in
the architecture engineering, right?
So especially dealing with user databases
with relational database to user fields or
even other fields, make sure that
when you are adding a field that if
it is a field that references
another table, you make a backup or
some way to identify how to make
that successful relationship.
Because the answer here is,
there is no good answer.
We actually have to delete and
wipe the data here.
So NPSQL right here, what I'm gonna do
is write DELETE FROM workouts like so.
And if I run this,
it should say I've deleted one workout.
So here, DELETE 1.
We can validate that
that no longer exists.
We also validate from workout_entries
that they are in fact empty.
So ON DELETE CASCADE does work indeed.
So with that,
we can now rerun our Goose command, and
here we are on successfully
migrate database to version five.
So yeah, just kind of sound like a broken
record all because we have the ability
to make migrations doesn't excuse any kind
of laziness on the engineer side, right?
So again, just beware of
the feature you are going to add
the level of your application, right?
If your app is already having
the content of thousand of users,
there's certain features that gonna be
very complicated to add if they do require
adding a new relationship, right?
That has to be some creative fields,
creative ways to do that.
Some of this does actually involve
making a back of the DB in a script
to put that data into
the modified database.
So I just wanna kind of give a heads up
on how to handle something like this.
Cool, so now, if we go to psql and
we do select all from workouts,
we can see we now have our new user_id
field and that is working pretty well.